# manage-terraform
A Bash utility to automate common tasks when working with Terraform, including formatting, initialization, planning, applying, destroying, and cleaning resources. **For additional resources, examples, and community engagement**, check out the portal [Cloudymos](https://cloudymos.com) :cloud:.

## Prerequisites

- [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) installed
- Bash shell environment

## Usage

Make sure to run the script with appropriate options as listed below:

```
./manage-tf.sh
``` 


Replace `<option>` with one of the following:

- `config`: Initializes environment variables required for the Terraform configuration.
- `fmt`: Formats Terraform configuration files, validates them, and displays the duration of the process.
- `init`: Initializes the Terraform working directory.
- `plan`: Formats, validates, generates a plan, and displays the duration of the process.
- `apply`: Applies the planned changes and displays the duration of the process.
- `go`: Combines planning and application into a single step and displays the duration of the process.
- `goodbye`: Generates a destruction plan and applies it to revert changes made.
- `destroy`: Destroys resources and displays the duration of the process.
- `clean`: Removes temporary files generated by Terraform.
- `lock`: Locks the versions of Terraform providers.


## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please follow the guidance below for details on how to contribute to this project:
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a new branch: `git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name`
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -m 'Add some feature'`
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin feature/your-feature-name`
5. Open a pull request

## License

This script is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
